# cs340
# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used #to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in #the future?
One key aspect of writing maintainable and readable code is the use of in-line comments. Especially when considering applications that will be worked on or accessed by multiple developers, one should consider the difficulty in understanding exactly what a block of code is executing. Comments within code are effective because they let other developers (or yourself) know the purpose of a section of code and how data is flowing throughout a program. Additionally, abstracting methods and classes can lead to more adaptable code. As an example, the CRUD file we initially created early in the course was adaptable enough to be imported by multiple pieces of software and reduced the need of writing redundant code. We should always focus on the principles of Object Oriented Programming when writing complex code to reduce redundancy and improve adaptability. Furthermore, this aids in future code maintenance by allowing developers to make wide-reaching changes within a single class or file.
# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did #your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to #meet other client requests?
I prefer to take an iterative approach when developing software. After an initial gathering of information and planning, code can be written in smaller pieces in a cyclical nature. This is powerful because it allows us to create working code relatively quickly, which can later be built upon to gradually address more functional requirements. My approach with this project differed slightly in that I needed to ensure my user was authenticated when connecting and that the correct port was being accessed. This was a new process for me, but because we achieved this functionality as a series of smaller steps, it did not seem overwhelming. Moving forward, I appreciate the fact that I am now comfortable working with MongoDB because I find the syntax quite intuitive and enjoy the similarity to writing JavaScript. I am likely to utilize MongoDB in the future.
# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists design, develop, and maintain software and hardware that are essential for organizations to run. At their core, I would say that computer scientists are problem solvers that help reduce the manpower required for processes to run. This work is crucial for businesses of all types because software can provide functionality that boosts profit, reduces cost, and saves time. As an example from this project, the dashboard would allow Grazioso Salvare to better understand their collection of animals and to visualize where specific animals are and the demographics of specific groups. While a human could calculate this information without the software, the time and money required to do so would be immense, and the process would need to be repeated on a regular basis as data changes. Alternatively, the dashboard application within this project allows all members of the organization to access a powerful bank of information on demand, and this information is automatically updated as the database changes.
